hi guys my name is Bill and what I'm
gonna do today is show you how to test
some defrost timers now I have other
videos showing you how to put it in
defrost wait 30 minutes see if the
heater comes on waiting for the
commodity frost but I'm gonna give you a
more visual look at the way a defrost
timer works and hopefully it'll they'll
help you in your testing process all
right so here we go I'm gonna try to
make this simple now on every defrost
timer there's a series of four pins and
they're labeled - starting from left to
right I got two one four and the one
that's away from the others is number
three that's well we'll call this one
here the neutral the fan neutral the
heater neutral and the neutral that goes
to your Cordy plug in all connect to
basically this in some way shape or form
and when you have your refrigerator
turned on this pin number one has the
power babe it's always has constant
power and what happens between defrost
ones when whenever our lights gonna come
on and when the fan comes on the
compressor when it's not in defrost
power is gonna switch from one to either
two and they defrost or go from one and
make a connection two in number four
whenever it's compressor in the fan has
brought so I kind of have that set up
right here on this defrost timer the
power on my cord that I'm gonna plug
into the wall right here is going to
pins number one and three and then right
now I'm going to put the defrost timer
in defrost now it's in defrost so when I
plug this cord in the lights gonna come
on because it's sending power that I
have connected to one pin number one
right here and it's gonna connect it to
number two which number two is that
wired that runs to that light so let's
plug down
this is a noisy timer - so there we go
lights on run defrost now after 30
minutes
visit ten hour
[Music]
in our 30-minute timer so after after
after 30 minutes that light will go out
and the fan will come on but I'm going
to advance it out of defrost a little
turn here
defrost systems off and the fan and the
compressor are on now basically it's
gonna run like this for 10 hours cycling
on and off the keep temperature
and then it's gonna come back to that 30
minute window to where power goes from
pin number one back over to pin number
two now you can also test the timer I
mean the timer has a little motor in it
so you could test it with when you have
it in defrost you have a circuit between
1 & 2 it'll show a closed circuit and we
take it out of the frost that's gonna
show a closed circuit between 1 & 4 and
that tells you this when it's plugged in
both those will get power but it's not
going to actually tell you if the timer
is turning or not the easiest way to do
that really would be to make a mark when
your timer connect powers to pin 1 & 3
plug it in and let that timer advance
and make sure it goes more than a
quarter turn if it goes through the
defrost if you plug it in when it's in
defrost and it comes out of defrost on
its own the motor inside the timers good
I have all this set up just as a as a
visual now I did putting in defrost with
a light on let it go for 32 minutes is
what it took for the light to go out in
the fan to come on
so we're gonna simulate ten hours here
[Music]
we're almost there
so now the defrost system is on and the
compressor and the fan are off and it'll
be like that for 30 minutes and that's
basically how it works all right so
there you go
that's a little bit about how a defrost
timer works in your refrigerator I hope
that visual has made it a little bit
easier for you to understand how the
power connects between 1 and 2 and then
from 1 4 depending on whether it's in
defrost or whether it's calling for cold
and the fan of the compressor are
cycling on and off as they should
every time I try to say something
somebody loud drives by
but anyway there you go now these videos
there did not really cover a whole lot
on refrigerator troubleshooting but
these are meant for individual pages on
my website how to check a defrost timer
how to check the vaporetto fan and stuff
like that it's actually a website I'm
working on right now to try to you know
just expand what I have on the internet
to help people out when their google
searching for you know how to fix the
refrigerator so thanks for watching and
go ahead and hit the like button for
this video if you liked it and subscribe
for more videos thanks